
1) PROBLEM STATEMENT
  Design a program that will display a narrative and dialogue before prompting for players to 
  choose what path they decide to go down, input the results, and output 
  the next narrative, dialogue, and prompt path based on the previous choice.
        

2) NOUNS & VERBS 
	
	Nouns: narrative, dialogue, first choice, second choice, third choice, fourth choice

  Verbs: display, prompt, choose, input, output

3) DEFINING DIAGRAM (IPO)

  INPUT:
    narrative
    dialogue 
    choice1
    choice2
    choice3
    choice4

  PROCESSING: 
    display narrative
    display dialogue
    prompt for choices
    accept choice
    input player results
    output next narrative and choice based on choice path

  OUTPUT:
    choice1 reaction
    choice2 reaction
    choice3 reaction
    choice4 reaction
    next narrative
    next dialogue

4) SOLUTION ALGORITHM (Pseudocode)
       
  Main()
    initialize choices as strings

    display "Amidst a chaotic world consumed by the relentless tide of the 
            undead, humanity is on the brink of extinction. Cities have fallen, 
            governments have crumbled, and society as we knew it has vanished into 
            the abyss."

    display "You emerge as one of the survivors, navigating a desolate 
            landscape plagued by death and decay in this post-apocalyptic world."

    prompt user for name with "Before we begin, what would you like to be called?"
    prompt "You want to be called name, is that correct?"

      IF yes THEN 
        continue to next step
      ELSE IF no THEN 
        return to prompt user for name 
      ENDIF
    
    display "I have heard rumors about a sanctuary beyond the wall, whispers in 
            the shadows. People say it is a place where civilization thrives, where the 
            dead do not walk, and the living can breathe easily. But can I trust such 
            tales? In a world where hope is as scarce as clean water, it is tempting to 
            cling to any glimmer of salvation."

    display "However, blind faith can be a dangerous thing. I have seen too many 
            dreams crumble to dust in this wasteland. Yet, a part of me still dares to 
            believe. A part of me hopes that maybe, just maybe, there is a chance for a 
            better life beyond these walls. But until I see it with my own eyes, I will 
            keep my skepticism close at hand. After all, in a world ruled by chaos and 
            uncertainty, it pays to be cautious."

    display "As you traverse through Silent Grove, you stumble upon a survivor.
            He looks up at you."

    display: "Survivor: You're lookin' for the Sanctuary, ain't ya?"

    prompt choice1R as "Uh, yeah... How did you...?"
    prompt choice2R as "What if I am? Do you know anything about it?"
    prompt choice3R as "What's it to you? Why are you asking?"

    IF choice1R, choice2R, choice3R === true THEN
      output = goodSurvivor
    ENDIF

    IF output = goodSurvivor THEN
      display 
        "Survivor: I've seen that look before. The desperation, the hope in your eyes.
        You ain't the first wanderer to come searchin' for it."
    ENDIF

    display "I see... So, do you know anything about it? About where it might be?"

    display: "Survivor: Maybe I do, maybe I don't. But what's it worth to you?" as survivorTask

    prompt choice1O as "I don't have much to offer. Can't you just tell me?"
    prompt choice2O as "I'm not paying for information. I'll find my own way."
    prompt choice3O as "What do you mean?"
    prompt choice4O as "I'm willing to make a deal. What do you want in exchange?"

    IF choice1O, choice2O > choice3O, choice4O THEN
      output = onYourOwn
    ENDIF

    IF choice1O, choice2O < choice3O, choice4O THEN
      output = dadGoldCoin
    ENDIF

    IF output = onYourOwn THEN
      display "Then I guess you'll just have to keep searchin' on your own. Good luck, kid."
      display "Fine by me. I'll find it on my own."
      display "*Maybe I should think again about the offer from the survivor. 
              The lost coin could help me on my journey. But he might be leading 
              me on a wild goose chase. Or I could go west, where there's only 
              miles of forest."

      prompt choice1G as "Hey, about earlier... I'm sorry. I shouldn't have been 
                          so quick to brush off your offer. The truth is, I could 
                          use your help."
      prompt choice2G as "Go west."

      IF choice1G > choice2G THEN
        return to dadGoldCoin
      ENDIF

      IF choice2G > choice1G THEN
        display "You begin your journey west."
        display "About an hour into the journey, a rustling noise emanates from the 
        nearby bushes."
        display "*Huh? What's that noise? It sounds like... someone or something is 
                out there. Should I investigate? I could ignore it and keep 
                heading west, or I could check it out.*"

        prompt choice1B as "Investigate."
        prompt choice2B as "Ignore it and keep moving" 

        IF choice1B > choice2B THEN
          display "You walk slowly towards the bush."
          display "You hear the sound of footsteps behind them, growing louder with each 
                  passing moment"
          display "Turn around."
          return to wrongChoice
        ENDIF

        display "*It's a horde of zombies! I need to get out of here, fast!*" as wrongChoice
        display "Despite your best efforts, you are unable to escape the relentless 
                pursuit of the zombies."
        display "Your journey ends here, consumed by the zombie horde."
        prompt "Restart." with yes button
        return to start
    ENDIF
   
    IF output = dadGoldCoin THEN
      display ""I'm lookin' for a keepsake from before the Fall. Bring me my dad's gold 
              coin and I'll give you the information you seek. It should be around 
              here somewhere.""
      display "I'll get it for you in no time." 
      display "You begin to search the area, not quite sure where to look."
      display "All I see in the area are an abandoned hut, a small cave, 
              and a large boulder. Which one should I investigate first?" AS hutCaveBoulder

      prompt choice1P as "Abandoned hut."
      prompt choice2P as "Small cave."
      prompt choice3P as "Large boulder."

      IF choice1P > choice2P, choice3P THEN
      output = abandonedHut
      ENDIF

      IF choice2P > choice1P, choice3P THEN
        output = smallCave
      ENDIF

      IF choice3P > choice1P, choice2P THEN
        output = largeBoulder
      ENDIF

      IF output = abandonedHut THEN
        display "*The hut might hold some secrets. It's worth a closer look.*"
        display "Where do I want to look" as searchHut

        prompt choice1R as "Rug."
        prompt choice2R as "Closet"
        prompt choice3R as "Kitchen cabinets"

        IF choice1R > choice2R, choice3R THEN
          output = rug
        ENDIF

        IF choice2R > choice1R, choice3R THEN
          output = closet
        ENDIF

        IF choice3P > choice1P, choice2P THEN
          output = kitchenCabinet
        ENDIF

        IF output = rug THEN
          display "You spot a glimmer of gold hidden beneath the dusty old rug."
        ENDIF

        IF output = closet THEN
          display "No luck."
          return to searchHut
        ENDIF

        IF output = kitchenCabinet THEN
          display "No luck."
          return to searchHut
        ENDIF
      ENDIF

      IF output = smallCave THEN
        display "*The cave seems like it could be hiding something valuable. 
                I'll check it out.*"
        display "You enter the cave. It's smaller than you thought."
        display "*I can't see in here and it appears there are no crevices
                for a coin to hide.*"
        return to hutCaveBoulder
      ENDIF 

      IF output = largeBoulder THEN
        display "*The boulder looks odd. Maybe there's something hidden underneath it.*"
        display "You approach the large boulder, its imposing presence casting a 
                  shadow over the surrounding area."
        display "*This boulder weighs tons. What was I thinking?*"
        return to hutCaveBoulder 
      ENDIF 
    ENDIF

    display "*Found it! The gold coin was hiding right under my nose. Good thing 
            I decided to explore this hut.*"
    display "You carefully pocket the coin, ensuring its safe before heading back 
            to the survivor."
    display "Hey, here's the coin you asked for."
    display "His eyes light up as he takes the coin."
    display Survivor: "I got somethin' that might catch yer eye. Follow me."
    display "You follow him to a shack that you are positive wasn't there 
            earlier, but you brush it off."
    display "Survivor: Found this while rummagin' through some old ruins. 
            Looks like a piece of a map, but it's all torn up, see?"
    display "You examine the map. It doesn't appear to be very conventional.
            'Do you know where this leads?'"
    display "Survivor: Not a clue, mate. But I reckon it's got somethin' worth 
            findin'. And you, my friend, look like the sort who can piece 
            it together."
    display "You want me to find the missing pieces of the map?"
    display "Survivor: That's right. I wish you luck."
    display "There's a crash outside the shack, and you quickly turn around to 
            investigate. It was just a squirrel."
    display "'Will you accomp...' The survivor disappeared. He was just there a 
            minute ago."
    display "After the fact settles in, you brush it off and head back outside. 
            You shudder and can't help but feel an odd presence nearby. A crow 
            is sitting atop the shack."
    display "You wonder if that may be... but stop yourself and chuckle. 
            That's impossible."
    display "After securing the torn piece of the map in your pack, you take one 
            last look around at your surroundings. It's time to set off on the 
            quest, in search of the next piece of the map. The crow flies away 
            and a cool breeze rustles through the trees, carrying the promise of 
            discovery and adventure, and your heart beats with anticipation."


5) TEST CASES

  VARIABLES: choices, dialogue, narrative

      TEST CASE 1:
        INPUT VALUES: choice1R
          

        YOUR EXPECTED RESULT: 
        "Survivor: I've seen that look before. The desperation, the hope in your
        eyes. You ain't the first wanderer to come searchin' for it."


      TEST CASE 2:
          INPUT VALUES: choice 1O
            

          YOUR EXPECTED RESULT:
          "Survivor: Then I guess you'll just have to keep searchin' on your own. 
          Good luck, kid."

      TEST CASE 3:
        INPUT VALUES: choice 3O
         

        YOUR EXPECTED RESULT:
        "Survivor: "I'm lookin' for a keepsake from before the Fall. Bring me my dad's 
        gold coin and I'll give you the information you seek. It should be around 
        here somewhere."

      TEST CASE 4:
        INPUT VALUES: choice1G
          

        YOUR EXPECTED RESULT:
        "Survivor: "I'm lookin' for a keepsake from before the Fall. Bring me my dad's 
        gold coin and I'll give you the information you seek. It should be around 
        here somewhere."

      TEST CASE 5:
        INPUT VALUES: choice2G
          

        YOUR EXPECTED RESULT:
        "You begin your journey west."

      TEST CASE 6:
        INPUT VALUES: choice1B
          

        YOUR EXPECTED RESULT:
        "You walk slowly towards the bush."

      TEST CASE 7:
        INPUT VALUES: choice2B
          

        YOUR EXPECTED RESULT:
        "You continue walking west."

      TEST CASE 8:
        INPUT VALUES: choice1P
          

        YOUR EXPECTED RESULT:
        "*The hut might hold some secrets. It's worth a closer look.*"

      TEST CASE 9:
        INPUT VALUES: choice2P
          

        YOUR EXPECTED RESULT:
        "*The cave seems like it could be hiding something valuable. I'll check it out.*"

      TEST CASE 10:
        INPUT VALUES: choice3P
          

        YOUR EXPECTED RESULT:
        "*The boulder looks odd. Maybe there's something hidden underneath it.*"